Wenesday

#= Modular monolith Simon Brown

We don't have common vocabulary
eg : component. A webapp Component sometimes is naled a component.


###### Four levels to describe architecture
Context > Containers > Components > Classes
Sometimes it's hard to find the component in the app. For instance when you have several layers in an app. We create layers and components and don't have keywords layers and components.
gap model-code (just enough software architecture (title?), a book)

We are encouraged to do layers


Should layers be considered harmful?

* layers is great in os implementation. But in software?
* Cargo cult?

Screaming architecture by Uncle Bob
PresentationDomainDataLayering , by M. Fowler


"Architecturally-evident coding style". Let's be explicit
#> naming conventionn annotations...
A way is to group (in a package/directory) from a component in one component

the
##### modularity as a principle


##### interation design choice
* sync/async
* Do we put all  together?

##### don't put every method public
Use the "package" visibility


#### Testing
"Why most unit testing is waste" by James Coplien
Avoid mocking
Hard to testing the DAO inside a component
So don't do unit testing...
Is Unit testing a cargo cult?
What we are used to  : Unit > Integraation > UI and functional
Lots of Unit tests , Some Integration tests, Few UI tests

Other way to do : test things at Component level, with embeded DB fr instance.
Ok if you control the own stack
Simmon Brpw prefers :
* Class tests : unit tests, focus on individual classes
* Component/Service tests : test through the public interface
* System tests : ui, api... end-to-end test


Goal : achieve maixmum code coverage from a minimum amount of test code
unit testing is extreme
Writing huge acceptance test is too big. Goal : find the balance

Why ? To have a maintainable system. Agility, wich is a quality attribute


Between monolithic archiecture and Srevice based architecture
There is something in betwenn : Components architecture, modular components.

Choose microservices of rthe benefits : polyglot, distributed, scalable...
Otherwise it's uxeless
Align architecture and code. Adot an architecturally-evident coding style

#### Advise
Stop making every classes public







# JVM in containers
Docker in production for JVM
By @chbatey

Plan :
How it works
What tools to use

See on github.com/chbatey/docker-jvm-talk

Two Exmaple Apps : tar-pack and dropwizard => using wiremock

#### Motication
##### Deplyment models
* app server : deplyable on every hardware
* jetty in a bunch of jars , with an executable jars , in an app

What is the benefit to put an app with Jetty in Docker?

Cost Optimization by AWS. It exists. Aloows to save money. It's a AWS feature

Multiple JVM on the same machine?
Can be easy OR hard.
for instance Spark and cassandra, it works.
JVM is good at utilizing the entire box. JVM Ergonomics


## Docker internals
#### Namespaces
* Process
* mounts
* networking

#### Control Groups. Cgroups

#### Tools to use
* ps, htop
* systemd-cg{ls,top}
* dstat
* cadvisor
* heapster
* jcmd
* dmesg


##### Tools
Example : used from the Docker image phusion/baseimage
Good, solves some problems for jvm in docker

#####=
Don't use docker exec -it IMAGE in production
You can reach the memory limit and kill the process...
cgroups is an isolation technology, not a virtualization technology

systemd-cgls ls that knows control groups
When you do docker ps yo uhave the docker ids

everything is in the file system : in /sys/fs/cgroup/memory/docker/cgroup.event_control

Sometimes docker/compose is just a way to pass parameters to linux...
So the idea is to read Cgroup documentation

##### Memory in containers
limiting it
docker run -d --name dropwizard --memory=128MB

If you launch a JVM > limit of docker , docker will kill the JVM

You can see that in dmesg

If docker with limit = 300M and java started with 256M > Works but is SLOW!
You can see it with dstat eg : dstat -lvrn 10 (refreshevery 10 s)
With dtat yo ucan see a LOT of paging. The process is swaping

** You can disable swaping on docker: --memory-swap=300M

Sizing the memory for a JVM
* Heap
* Threads
* Metaspace
* Code
* GC
* Native

Use NativeMemory but only ... (oops missed)

##### jcmd
jcmd to see a JVMs memory usage
So you can see the ~ of threads created
You can see the threads : jcmd Thread.print
eg : jcmd 26 Thread.print | grep "dw" |wc -l

Sometimes a Java app creates too much threads. For instance Jetty creates nb of cores * 2. But it says if the number is stupid

Overriding
eg : override the nb os acceptors in Jetty

Solution? Do not tie thread <-> app
use : Netty, akka, ratpack...
They create nb of threads = #cores * 2
# of threads :
jcmd 26 Thread.print|grep "C1|C2"|wc -l #nb of threads for GC


#### How to allocate CPU
There is more GC pauses on JVM/Docker
How to set CPU
##### use cpuset in docker-compose
cpuset = :"8,9,10" will use 3 cores
Fine, but brutal,  can not be ported. And
Kuberbetes does not support cpuset

##### limit CPU : shares
Put in docker-compose:
cpu_shares: 4096 (or 1024... Default is 1024)
Disavantage : capacity planning is hard. Depends on what is on the machine and if the other things are busy
If a CPU is shared (eg 2 applications for 1 core), there will be a lot of pauses

##### CPU quota
cpu_quota: nb of millis
cpu_period=100000
one core=1000000
two cores=2000000

If you use cpu_quota, an app can use more than 1 core...

To understand better : cpu throttle time
See cadvisor : a Google tool to have metrics about your docker images


#### JVM inside containers take await
* "Get the appropriate #threads
  - know the app and the libraries used in the image, how to size the ~threads
* Size memory and TEST












# Authentication and Authorization in a Cloud and Microservice World
Thomas Kruse and Stefan Reuter


Plan
## Terminology
## History of Authentification
##


## Terminology
#### Authentification
the proces of determinisng whetgher so or smtg is who/what he declares
Linked to users and credentials and groups
Users have a role


## Authorization
Process to allow to do/have something
Authorisation then authorization
Can be complex
concepts linked => roles, groups...


## History
* Each system has its authz process
* One form/app
Tools:
* LDAP
* Kerberos
* Radius
* SAML2 : Security Assertion Markup Language, mainly for web browser SSO
* OAuth2 and then Social login (google, twitter, facebook)
* OpenID Connect

#### Historyof Application landspaces
* mainframe
* internet : high latency
* Cloud : public/private
* Micro Services : massively distributed

## Today's requirements
##### For Authentification

* Fault tolerant
*Scale independaently
*Support delegation
* Support federation (conect 2 other systems)
* Would be great to have a multi factor 

##### For authz
* Roles based
* fine grained permissions


## Which solution
Requirements*
#### Store users & credentials (ldap, sql, nosql)
#### Central System of authentification (Authn) ; signup, passwd policies, change pwd, catchpa, remember me... Can be bought off the shelf
##### Browser based Login / desktop login/mobile/etc..
##### Token based Authentification
   - Exchange user/password for a token
   - Level of indirection
   - Limited lifetime
   - opaque or structured data
   - Example : oauth2 : Access Token, Refresh token,; OpenID token
State of the art for tokens : 
   - Should be stateless
Alternative : Front Channel Logout
- Support local validation
   - leightweight (not xml so..)
   - Short lived
Exemaple : JWT
Base64 URL ENcode. 3 parts : header, Payload and signature. Separated by "."
xxx.yyyyy.zzz

Authentificate to Application : get a token to the authn then connect to the App
Best now is OpenID connect

#####= OpenID
* process to obtain identity toekn
* validation of token
* token format (is free?)

#####= OpenID COnnect
Based on oauth2. Uses JWT
Multiple flows to cover different use cases

Typical flow :
 * go to App. Not logged
 * Redirect to Authn. Get a token. get redirected to App
 * Present token

Can be good for SSO : one Authn and several APps

SSO : you can keep the tokens - so the token is not stolen , or taken from another app

Single Sign Out : 
Request logout => invalidate token



#####  Using Microservices
Use the same token on different microservices

##### Federation
One place for authn . Federation of several authn systems. 3rd party user bases. Can be implemented in SAML2 or OpenID Connect



## Authorization
Authn : User has Credentials and Roles
App1 has Roles Permissons, 
App2 has different Roles Permissons, 

#### Central or local?
* Central authentification
 - identify with roles
 - consisten results..
 - management
* Local authorization
 * Maps roles to permissions
 * promotes loose coupling
* Central authorization management

What you need in the Cloud : delegation of authorization
* Allow external parties to access resources on behalf 
* Often implemented with Oauth2

#### Technologies
* On premise : keycloak, identityServer, WSO2, Foregerock OpenAM/OpenIDM
* As a service : auth0, stormpath, AWS incognito

#### Technologies for applicatoins




# Unikernels and Docker : from Revolution to Evolution
by @mort___
See http://unikernel.org

I missed the beginning



